 intodusion your self

      

how to check how many group in my linux system ?
in order to list the cat command you can exiccute command

    cat /etc/group
what is diffrent between ssh and telnet ?
Telnet transfers the data in simple plain text. On other hand SSH uses Encrypted format to send data and also uses a secure channel
   
how will be adding user in to diffrent group
usermod -a -G admin ammu
what is the difference between sap and resin ?
How To Check System Load in Linux
ANS  uptime
how to check process id of service 
 ps -ef | grep nifi


what is diffrent between etc/passwd file and etc/shadow fill ?

/etc/passwd is used to store user information, such as name, shell, home directory, that sort of thing. /etc/shadow is where the user passwords are actually stored in a non-world readable, encrypted format
OR etc/ shadow fill having user accout detail and  etc shadow fill user passwood detail with encription format 

how to create passwood less ssh ?

ssh-keygen
ls -ltr
two file is created id_rsa and id_rsa.pub

fisrt 
cat id_rsa.pub >> authorized_keys

5)  chmod 700 ~/.ssh

6 )  chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

entry of the hosts file server 

and than ssh is working fine



how will wactch hidden file in linux system ?

ls -a

how to mount hard drive  ?
type the command 
lsblk
parted /dev/xvdf
mklable gpt
unitGB
mk part primary 0 10 GB
quite
fdisk i /dev/xvdf1
mkfs.xfs dev/xvdf
mount /dev/xvdf1/opt/
show the har drive
df -TH


suppose i have one dns server  and i need to entry in my linux server what is command ?

sudo vi /etc/hosts



how will asign user to sudo pervillages ?  /  how will asing sudo role of user
first we can edit visudo file and remove wheel #
and  type the command usermode -a -G wheel ammu
and  user add the wheel group
oR
first add the user in wheel group the command is usermod -a -G wheel and user name
what is the diffrent between hive cli and beeline ?
how to watch acl appled or node
get acl status

what is the diffrent between acl and chmode
chmod we will uset to give the permisions on files or folders.. ACL to give permission on a file more than one group or users from diffrent groups and we can customise the permissions type
what is diffent between hadoop 1.x or 2.x
hadoop 1 task tracker and job if user submit a job job tracker job tracker asing job to tasktracker in the task tracker is only daimod process data it is boltle nake of 


when we use ping command what is the backend portol backend ?

   internet contorl massage portocol H

how to add user on multiplegroup  ?
usermode -a -G test ammu

how to check my tom cat server or any server runnig or not ?
ps -ef | grep tomcat

chmod we will uset to give the permisions on files or folders.. ACL to give permission on a file more than one group or users from diffrent groups and we can customise the permissions type


how would create hidden file in linux ?

what is the full form for ssl tls?
ssl for secure socit  layer
traspot layer security

how many instace wiil your organation compue capasity and all ?

what is yarn ?
yarn stand for et Another Resource Negotiator it was introduse hadoop 2 to remove 
remove job botalnek job tracker yarn is data prosesng unit yarn have 4 component
resurece manager node manager application master contener
yarn is procesing unit of the colester
yarn uses which shaduler?
capacity shuduler

what is the diffrent between capacity shuduler and fair  share shaduler ?

capacity shoulder manitace sapret quee for small job to  star service as soon  as required as we are dividing cluster capacity large job take time 
fair share shadular does not have  any requrirement to reserve capacity 
what are the diffrent component in yarn ?s
name node resouce manager appication master and contener
yarn work flow ?

suppose 2 jobs running in your cluster and stuck after somtime then what will you do?
ANs: first we check the log and memory utilization and try to resolve it and if necessary them we will kill the job

command to list down the jobs  yarn application -list 
command to kill the jobs        yarn application -kill app id
what is the port of RM           8088
command to see the dfs used?     hdfs dfsadmin -report
command to check the health of the cluster  hdfs fsck /
command to list down the port of particuler services  netstat -anp | grep service name
suppose my resouce manager gos down shall i submit a job ?
no



 


what is diffrent between acl and chowd is linux ?
chown and chmod is  fille level or user level security and acl is user level security

how would be check load averge in linux machene
    
       w

what is perpose of zookeeper fillower ? 
how will you kill zoombie process ?
what is the port number name node 
what is the port number ranger
how will change ambari port number
By default Ambari uses port 8080 for access to Ambari Web and the REST API. If you want to change the port number, you need to edit the Ambari properties file. Ambari Server should not be running when you do this: either make the edits before you start Ambari Server the first time or bring the server down to make the edits.
expain hdfs arkitature 
hdfs is two main daimod  namenode and data node
how to fix job on underreplited job on hadoop closter ?

how to list hdfs file system 
hdfs dfs -ls /
how will ad the user in hdfs ?
how to create manuall check ponting ?  (time 2020 1 :37 ) checkpointing 
       go to hdfs user 
ANS    hdfs dfsadmin -safemode enter
       hdfs dfsadmin -saveNamespace enter
	   hdfs dfsadmin -safemode leave

what is diffrent between beeline  and hive CLI ?  

 The Hive CLI connects directly to the Hive Driver and requires that Hive be installed on the same machine as the client. ... Beeline is a thin client that also uses the Hive JDBC driver but instead executes queries through HiveServer2, which allows multiple concurrent client connections and supports authentication.


what is diffalt permision of user  in linux ?
700
how to check one user how many group ?
 id ammu

how to check one user how many group in hadoop ?

how to check health hadoop fill system
hdfs dfs fsck /

how to see currpted block
hdfs dfs -list -currptblock file
how to delect currpted block
hdfs dfs fsck / delet
h


how would you created user hdfs in hadoop file system

how would be genrate file sytem report?

    hdfs dfs admin -report

how file be impact on file syetem correped  and will be a file syetem halthy mood  and will be foundout this block are correped  and how wold be hality mood

how can copy data one server to onothe server

how to prereposit of kerberos

how can create kerbaroos keytab

how can create principal in kerbaroos cammond

if a 10 node calster keytab all 10 node aue one node

how can create ticket in kerbaros
kint

user ticket exper how to renew

   cd /etc/security/keytab
klist -kt hdfs.headlist.keytab
   show principle
klist -kt hdfs.headlist.keytab  and username

which port karbaroos ruunig ?
what is the diffrent between karbaroos and rangerr ?
ranger is use for authorastion  and karbaroos is use for tickting bases authotication

what is the diffrent between karbaroos and ranger ? 
ldap is not for hadoop karbaroos is hadoop karbaroos is top; of hadoop 
ldap is for network baseauthontication and karbaroos is use network base + file base authotication
service user ( hive ) exper how to genrate it

what  are the diffrent between fear shouler and yarn shoulder     (21 min )

resoure manager have down how to impact the runnig job ?

my namenode is safenode what is impact on my clostrer
and how to live namenoe to save mode
how will you create hdfs policy in ranger
what is the diffrent between telnet and ssh

how to commsnig and dicommicshing coloster 
how to coloster HA

how to kill any job yarn 
closter configration


suppose i have one vpc and number of server is inthe vpc and suddenly the vpc is not conncet to vpc how will be troble shoot

how to install mysql server
what is port number of yarn 
8088

suppose my ambari server is down then what happend to the running jobs.
ambari is just monitrong server so noting impact of job
what is the port of RNAGER and how to apply different policy?
ranger port no is 6080 with the help of ranger ui you can add diffrent policy
What is HA and how you configure it ?
first go to hdfs action button enable high avalibliity select three jn jode 
follow the wizard ha is asane

How to check the ACL applied? Status ? 
-getacl
Hdfs dfs -getfacl
Hdfs dfs -setfacl username :abdul permission:rwx: /file_name

	Copying a file from one cluster to another cluster
hadoop fs -distcp hdfs://namenodeA/dvs_hdfs/emp.csv hdfs://namenodeB/dvs_hdfs
	
how to see currpted block in hdfs
hdfs dfs -list -curruped  block
hdfs dfs fsck /delect

. How do you takes users tickets in kerberos ?
Ans;- kinit
30. Where do keytabs is stored ?
Ans /etc/krb5/krb5. keytab

31. What are different configration file in kerberos?
Ans:- kadmin, krb5.conf

32. what is use of spingo keytab and haedless keytab ?

33. Port no of kerberos?
Anss:- 88

34. Difference between LDAP and Kerberos.
35. How do you integrate AD server with ranger ?
 