  what is diffrent between etc/passwd file and etc/shadow fill
how to check how many group in my linux system
cat /etc/group
what is diffrent between ssh and telnet
how will be adding user in to diffrent group
what is the difference between sftp and resin
How To Check System Load in Linux
how to check process id of service
    ps -ef | grep service name 
	
1. Difference between Softlink and Hardlink
 soft link is an actual link to the original file, whereas a hard link is a mirror copy of the original file. 
If you delete the original file, the soft link has no value, because it points to a non-existent file. But in the case of hard link, it is entirely opposite. 
Even if you delete the original file, the hard link will still has the data of the original file. Because hard link acts as a mirror copy of the original file.

When you create a file using touch file. what is the default permission?
Ans: 755 

How do you list the Hidden files in linux 
ls -a 

What is Zombie process in Linux. and how to kill it?
Ans:- Zombie Process:- The process which has been finished and killed but still display at dashboard is called Zombie Process.
	  Command to kill > kill -9 Process_ID/Process_Name

how to mount hard drive

Use of netstat command
The network statistics ( netstat ) command is a networking tool used for troubleshooting and configuration, that can also serve as a monitoring tool for connections over the network. Both incoming and outgoing connections, routing tables, port listening, and usage statistics are common uses for this command

what is use daily use linux  command
create  and delete fill and  directoy command , listing dirctoy and  hidden fill command , adding and removing user command , copy and  remove command , changing owner ship  chmod command , grep command , show disk usage command , and kill command etc 

what is the purpose of Host file in linux
the  purpose of hosts fill is adding a entry of node comunicate othe node of cluster


Bash is a Unix shell, which is a command-line interface for interacting with the operating system. In Linux, a process is an instance of a program in execution. When you run a command in a terminal or through a shell script, a new process is created to run that command. If the command you run is a Bash shell script, then the process that is created is a Bash process.

How do you create user in Linux, Suppose let say I want to create a user xyz and I want to assigne 
that user into two diff group one group is called admin and second group called AD can you 
write down the command 
adduser xyz 
passwd xyz 
usermod -a -G group1(admin),group2(AD) username (xyz) 

when we use ping command what is the backend portol backend ?
internet contorl massage portocol

how to check my tom cat server or any server runnig or not ?
ps -ef | grep tomcat

what is diffalt permision of user  in linux ?
700
how to check one user how many group ?
 id ammu
 
 how do you assign the sudo role to user in linux? 
usermod -a -G wheel (username ) 
   
wheel group : what is the one purpose of wheel group : like if we created a user and we want to 
provid it sudo access we have to add that user in wheel group first with the help of edit "visudo" 
and give % sign to %wheel (allow people in a group wheel to run all the commands) 
visudo : do not give % for root acccess and it will raise security concern ... this command to edit 
visudo is a tool for safely updating the /etc/sudoers file, found in most Linux systems (Ubuntu for 
example). This is the file that is required for allowing regular users run commands with superuser 
privileges - using sudo command 
